# DevOps and ARM Detour

Late last year I put in an order for two PINE A64+ SBCs. I received those within the last few weeks and have spent some time putting them to work.

For some time now, I've been running all of my services on a single quad-core i7 3770S with a 250GB SSD and 16GB of RAM. That machine runs a variety of services via KVM (network-related services like VyOS and components that require elevated network access like Docker and IDS monitoring software) and LXD. I've been transitioning as much as I can to LXD for performance reasons.

One thought I had for these little PINE boards was to run a few microservices on each via LXD. It might seem problematic on the surface, but these boards have 4 cores each and 2GB of RAM. That should be enough to do some interesting things. So far I have not been disappointed.

## Base Setup

I immediately installed the Ubuntu 16.04 image recommended by the PINE folks. I quickly realized that it was much more bloated than I wanted (it has a desktop environment) and went about taskseling the garbage out of it. Unfortunately, I hit a snag with `apt` - the switch to the server setup would not complete successfully because `open-iscsi` could not load. A kernel module was missing.

That discovery led me to the PINE64 forums where I learned that all of the Ubuntu images were based on work done by a user who goes by longsleep. That user publishes a more stripped down Ubuntu image (server version) and provides regular kernel updates. I switched to that but still found the necessary modules (`open-iscsi` and `openvswitch`) missing. After a few quick forum posts, longsleep graciously added those modules to his kernel builds. A couple of weeks later (after going through longsleep's deployment pipeline), I had the modules on my boards.
